Welcome to JW Broadcasting®.
In this month’s program,
we’ll learn how to develop
and protect our God-given thinking ability.
Here are some highlights of what’s to come.
In our next episode of Imitate Their Faith,
we’ll learn from Rebekah.
How did her love for God
influence her choices?
A priest spent years lost in a maze
of confusing teachings.
How did she escape the maze and find truth?
If you’ve been feeling like life is nonstop,
you’ll enjoy our latest music video.
It’s a reminder to take a breath,
pause, and reset.
This is JW Broadcasting for July 2024.
Young or old,
we need to consider the topic
of thinking ability
and how to develop it effectively.
All of us can think.
We can think about a lot of things
—some good and some bad.
It’s not uncommon, even for an adult,
to let his mind wander aimlessly.
Or a person may spend time thinking
of frivolous matters of little substance.
That’s what can happen to our thinking,
but it doesn’t always have a positive effect
on our life or our future.
Though specifically addressed to a young man,
the Bible book of Proverbs
gives sound advice for all of us.
Proverbs 1:4 says:
“To give a young man
[for that matter any of us]
knowledge and thinking ability.”
What is thinking ability in this verse?
The Hebrew word translated “thinking ability”
can be used in a bad sense
or in a favorable one.
So our mind and thoughts can be directed
to a worthy, upright end
or just the opposite.
If we incline our thinking to aspects
of Jehovah’s will and purposes,
we’ll safeguard our own thinking ability,
directing it into the right channels.
How valuable
is that type of thinking process?
Turn to Proverbs 3:21, 22,
which states: “Safeguard practical wisdom
“and thinking ability;
they will give you life.”
Thinking ability
is not in the exclusive realm
of the studious type.
Throughout our entire life,
we take in information by reading,
seeing, hearing,
and experiencing things.
And it’s the way we take in information
and react to it
that shapes our individual behavior
and personality.
Many persons
have not used their minds for much more
than the essentials of daily living.
But to succeed in life and in Jehovah’s eyes,
it’s necessary that we learn to train,
develop, and guard thinking ability.
Consider how trained thinking ability
might protect us
when it comes to using the Internet wisely.
While the Internet can be an excellent tool
for gathering knowledge,
thinking ability when properly exercised
will safeguard us from its harmful effects.
For example, some popular social media sites
contain short videos
designed to deliver instant gratification.
If the viewer
gets no immediate emotional reward,
he is tempted to keep scrolling
to find material
that will give the desired effect.
Over time,
this can lower one’s attention span,
which may impede a person’s ability to learn,
retain, and recall information.
None of us would want that to happen to us,
would we?
Additionally, studies have shown
that those who spend too much
of their time
with their electronic devices
are more prone to stress, anxiety,
depression, or other mental health problems.
On the other hand, thinking ability
can help us to work out ways
to control our use of such technology.
For example, God-oriented thinking ability
can help us to distinguish truth
from misleading and false information.
Thus, there is wisdom in what is stated
at Proverbs 2:11, 12:
“Thinking ability
“will keep watch over you,
“and discernment will safeguard you,
to save you from the bad course.”
Why is this so important?
Well, thinking ability and discernment
gives us perception.
And perception is closely related
to our conscience.
What we have meditated on
from God’s Word and stored in our mind
can mold our conscience,
which is an inner mechanism
to warn us of wrong actions or tendencies.
In effect, our thinking watches over us.
Notice how this is alluded to
at Hebrews 5:14:
“But solid food belongs to mature people,
“to those who through use
have their powers of discernment
“[that is, their thinking]
trained to distinguish
both right and wrong.”
All of us, both young and old,
should think carefully
about the following suggestions:
First, grow in knowledge of Jehovah.
Proverbs 9:10 says in part:
“Knowledge of the Most Holy One
is understanding.”
Coming to know Jehovah
is a blessing and a protection.
We need to pray to Jehovah
for insight when we study,
apply ourselves to Bible reading
on a regular basis,
and immerse ourselves in the truth.
We should talk to Jehovah
in prayer as our closest confidant.
This means using our thinking ability
to convince ourselves that Jehovah’s advice
is the best advice,
because doing so will
safeguard us when we’re tempted,
tested, or put into a situation
where we know we must say
no.
Remember who we are, what we stand for,
and to whom we have dedicated our life.
Next suggestion:
We need to continue to enhance
our Christian personality.
This is important, but why?
Because people who love Jehovah
will like and respect us for who we are.
And what kind of personality
are we suggesting?
Did you note the expression
“Christian personality”?
That means “Christlike.”
We cannot go wrong
by imitating Jesus in any way possible.
Recall that 1 Peter 2:21 says:
“To this course you were called,
“because even Christ suffered for you,
leaving a model
for you to follow his steps closely.”
Jesus’ whole way of life
—his attitudes, his values,
his interactions with others—
culminated into a personality
that we should strive to follow closely.
We know well how we want to look
when dressed for a special occasion.
We clothe ourselves
with careful attention to details.
Colossians 3:10
picks up on the illustration of clothing.
There it states:
“And clothe yourselves
with the new personality.”
Similarly, Romans 13:14
tells us: “Put on the Lord Jesus Christ,
and do not be planning ahead
for the desires of the flesh.”
We have to think
about Jesus’ personality constantly.
It certainly does not come naturally to us
imperfect descendants of Adam.
It takes real thinking ability.
And remember, in this case,
we are not clothing ourselves
just for one special occasion.
This is to be our daily wardrobe.
To the extent possible,
with our imperfection,
we continuously work to reflect
Jesus’ personality.
Next suggestion:
Give priority to our priorities.
What does this mean?
To accomplish things in life,
we must have schedules,
routines, and priorities.
For instance, at Bethel,
much work is accomplished
because of the daily routine
and because of giving priority
to spiritual matters.
At Philippians 1:10, Paul said
to “make sure of the more important things.”
Wholesome thinking ability
will help us to see the value
of organizing our life each day
to give priority
to the most important things.
Next suggestion:
Keep a modest view
of our own knowledge and experience.
Thinking ability will help us to filter
the information we let into our mind.
The real test of whether our thinking ability
has been properly trained
is how we apply knowledge.
So we need to be
cautious in life,
ask questions,
fact-check,
get advice, read, study,
and learn from Bible principles.
And once we’ve accumulated knowledge,
insight, and thinking ability,
modesty is involved in how we share it.
The apostle Paul said at Romans 12:3:
“I tell everyone there among you
“not to think more of himself
than it is necessary to think,
but to think so as to have a sound mind.”
Yes, we need to display a modest outlook
on our acquired thinking ability.
Did you notice it said
to think with “a sound mind,”
not an inflated mind,
not thinking more of ourselves
than is necessary to think?
Another way to use thinking ability
in this old world
is to avoid debt.
Now, why is this our last point?
Because material things
are not the most important things in life.
Many work themselves to death
to gain material prosperity.
However, as Christians,
there’s other work that’s related to worship.
We want to work ourselves to life,
yes, focused on everlasting life yet ahead.
It’s true, though, that some money is needed
to buy the necessities of life.
Whether we’re young
and just starting to earn a living
or we’re older
and have been working secularly for years,
we need to learn to manage and budget money.
This involves using our thinking ability
to separate needs from wants
and being cautious
about accumulating much debt.
Remember, according to Proverbs 22:7,
“the borrower is a slave to the lender.”
These few suggestions
are but a sample of areas in life
where we need
thinking ability and discernment
in order to analyze our situation,
make decisions, and determine future plans.
Always remember the advice
at Proverbs 3:21, 22:
“Safeguard practical wisdom
“and thinking ability;
they will give you life.”
Yes and—we may add—
even everlasting life
in God’s righteous new world!
Young people in the Bible used their
thinking ability to make wise decisions.
Rebekah was one of them.
Let’s see how she was
able to make a life-changing choice.
Long ago,
Abraham sent his servant Eliezer
to find a wife for his son Isaac.
He knew God’s purpose
required a woman of deep faith.
But who would be willing
to leave their home
and travel into the unknown?
Rebekah!
Mother, I’m back.
Hello, my dear.
Hi, Mother.
Rebekah!
Your cousin has been looking for you.
Ana, I’m over here!
Rebekah, can you bring this to Father?
Yeah. Is he still working?
Still working.
Rebekah, I’ve been looking for you.
Can I come with you?
Sure.
Hello, Father.
Laban said you needed this.
Ah, thank you.
Can I help with anything?
You can come with me to the well.
OK.
Ana, not today.
We need your help making dinner.
OK.
Good day.
Hello, Rebekah.
Nice to see you. Have a good day.
Please,
give me a little sip of water from your jar.
Drink, my lord.
I will also draw water for your camels
until they are done drinking.
You’ve had a long trip.
Excuse me, my lord.
Please tell me,
whose daughter are you?
Is there any room at your father’s house
for us to spend the night?
I will not eat
until I have told you what I have to say.
Please speak!
I am Abraham’s servant.
And Jehovah has blessed my master very much.
Sarah the wife of my master
bore a son to my master after she grew old.
So my master made me swear, saying:
“You will go to the house of my father
“and to my family,
“and you must take a wife
for my son.”
But I said to my master:
“What if the woman is unwilling to come?”
He said to me:
“Jehovah will send his angel with you
and will certainly give success to your journey.”
When I got to the spring today,
I said: “Jehovah the God of my master Abraham,
“if you will make my journey successful,
“here I am standing at a spring.
“When a young woman comes out to draw water,
“I will say: ‘Please,
“let me drink a little water from your jar.’
“And she will say to me: ‘You take a drink,
“and I will also draw water for your camels.’
“Let that woman be the one
“whom Jehovah has chosen
for the son of my master.”
Before I was finished speaking in my heart,
there was Rebekah
coming out with her jar on her shoulder.
After that I asked her,
“Whose daughter are you?”
to which she replied,
“The daughter of Bethuel.”
So I put the ring on her nose
and the bracelets on her hands.
And now tell me
if you wish to show loyal love
and faithfulness to my master;
but if not, tell me,
that I may proceed one way or the other.
This is from Jehovah.
Let her become a wife
to the son of your master,
just as Jehovah has spoken.
The Negeb is far.
When will you come back?
Why can’t you just stay here?
You heard what my father said:
“This is from Jehovah.”
You can serve Jehovah here!
That is true.
But you know
Jehovah will bless you
in ways you can’t even imagine.
We still have time together.
Let’s make the most of it.
Jehovah, why me?
Gather all the men and prepare the camels.
We must leave soon.
Right away.
Why are you packing?
Please send me off to my master.
Let the young woman stay with us
for ten more days.
At least ten more days.
Then she can go.
Do not detain me,
seeing that Jehovah has made
my journey successful.
Send me off,
in order that I may go to my master.
Let us call the young woman
and inquire of her.
Rebekah,
Eliezer wants to leave right now!
Excuse me.
Will you go with this man?
I am willing to go.
I love you.
Rebekah!
Our sister,
may you become thousands times ten thousand,
and let your offspring
take possession of the gate
of those who hate them.
Praise Jehovah!
I’ll miss you!
I love you.
Rebekah did not know what lay before her,
and there is no record
that she saw her family again.
She showed faith when she left the comfort of home.
Jehovah blessed her
as an ancestress of the Messiah.
Her faith is worthy of our imitation.
Overall, Rebekah had a life of few regrets.
The opportunity for the same blessing
is there for you too
if you imitate the faith of Rebekah.
Some people feel
that faith and science are at odds.
They say that a thinking person
cannot believe in God.
Is that true?
See how these young people used science
to build their faith.
When you believe in creation,
what challenges might you face?
My favorite subject was science
because I learned facts
about how things are connected.
I thought that was really exciting,
seeing how the physical world works.
But then you come to a topic like evolution,
and you immediately know
that there is something here
that is not quite right.
In fifth grade when I was around 12,
we had science
—my worst subject.
The teacher was fully convinced
that we descended from apes
and that the evolution theory is the truth.
You realize that you’re probably
the only one in that room thinking,
‘This is not true.’
Then you might start questioning yourself,
‘Is the teacher wrong,
or have I maybe believed something wrong
my whole life?’
It’s— It’s a little challenging
being alone in such a situation.
What helped you
to build your faith in a Creator?
I spent a lot of time on the bus
to and from school
reading jw.org
and the Five Questions  brochure,
actually, to make up my mind
as to what I believe in.
I did a lot of research
when I got home that evening,
and my parents helped me search our website.
And what helped me the most was the video
What Your Peers Say—Belief in God.
I remember one small scene
that stuck with me.
It was the glass bottle
that was pulled up from the sand.
Yes, it’s made of the same material,
but it definitely didn’t form by itself.
There has to be someone
that turns it into a glass bottle.
And I found that very logical;
it really convinced me
that there is a Creator.
I remember there are
three things necessary for life.
I learned it was RNA, DNA, and proteins.
If they were to exist at the same place
and at the same time,
that would be very rare.
And on top of that,
it would be as if those three things
then should team up
and say, “We would like to create life,
a cell that, in turn,
would become an animal,
a person, or many other things.”
This made me realize that believing this
would require even more faith
than believing that there is a God
who has created everything.
So I sent a text message to my teacher
with my viewpoints
about me believing in a Creator
and added a link to the video.
He then asked if it was OK
if I showed the video to the class.
And I said, “Of course.”
I watched the video so many times
that I knew all the lines by heart.
I knew exactly
which scene came when and where
so that if someone in the class
had any questions, I would know the answer.
During the last five minutes,
I got to appear in front of the class,
explained a little about Jehovah’s Witnesses
and that we believe in a Creator,
and said I had a video
that convinced me  of that.
And when I was about to press start,
the bell rang for a break.
But everyone stayed in the classroom
to watch the video.
I thought that was really fun.
How does having faith in a loving Creator
help you?
It makes everything more meaningful.
You’re not thinking: ‘Here I am.
‘I’ll just live the way I do until I die,
and that’s it.’
You believe that there is a purpose to life,
and it also opens the possibility
of a hope for the future.
Around us there are so many people
who have different views and theories,
and that can have a big impact on us.
So if you don’t have a strong faith,
then someone can pick away at your faith
and try to break it down.
Yes, I am very grateful
that my parents taught me about creation.
So I always knew
that there is a loving Father out there
who has created
all the beautiful things for us.
You can just go out into nature.
The sun is shining;
look at all the beautiful colors in autumn.
It’s so nice, and all you can do is, really,
just be grateful.
Now I am 100 percent convinced
that creation is a fact.
That’s how it must have begun.
These young people had doubts,
but they faced them head on.
You can too.
Don’t be afraid to talk to mature Christians.
Do your research
and reason on what you learn.
If you take in accurate knowledge,
you’ll find satisfying answers.
That’s what Katri wanted
—answers to life’s big questions.
She was a Lutheran priest in Finland.
How would she find real truth?
Let’s find out.
My mother taught me
from a very young age to pray.
For us, it meant chatting openly
with our heavenly Father
—everyday conversation.
That was a valuable life lesson
that has empowered me throughout my life.
Growing up, I always wanted
to become a teacher.
But after reflecting on it a bit more,
I realized that
what I really wanted to do with my life
was to work for the Kingdom of heaven.
So how could I do both?
I decided to pursue a career in theology.
My goal was to become
an instructor in the church.
When I started working for the church,
I quickly discovered
that the teachings of the church
contradict what the Bible says.
One question left unanswered by the church
was why suffering exists.
A pastor could only stammer and say,
“Well, it can’t be explained
because it’s a mystery.”
But I didn’t think the existence of suffering
could be a mystery at all.
I realized that I had to find a way
to satisfy my conscience
and still uphold the position of the church.
So while I was teaching, I would explain,
“This is what the church teaches,
but this is what the Bible says.”
And then
the most tragic moment
of my life happened.
I was 22 years old
and in the middle of planning for my wedding
when my fiancé died in a car accident.
Of course, this changed my life
completely.
It was the most painful feeling.
I just knew deep down
that now I would never marry
or have a family of my own.
So I had to find a way to survive
—day after day, year after year—
and look for another way
to leave something meaningful behind.
So I buried myself in my work.
The position at the church
that I had been working toward
was discontinued
and changed to the role of a priest.
Altogether, I did congregational work
for 33 years.
And then
when my health
couldn’t take it anymore,
I did other tasks for the church.
I was giving everything I had to give.
But whenever I looked to the church
to give something to me,
I was always left empty.
I prayed for many years,
“Lord, help me find my real spiritual home.”
This was my prayer for about ten years.
And then one day,
I came across Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Immediately, I said to my heavenly Father,
“This is what I have been searching for!”
“What do you have for me?”
That was the first thing I asked them.
The first meeting I attended
made a big impression on me.
I remember in particular
the verse in the Gospel of John:
“By this all will know
that you are my disciples
—if you have love [in your midst].”
And I thought:
‘I’ve been searching for this
‘all my life, and this is it!
It’s right here.’
My closest friend was deeply shocked
when I told her
that I was going to leave the church
to become one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
When she calmed down, she said:
“I will support you, as I always have.
But promise me you won’t change.”
Four years later, she came to visit me again.
She kept watching me closely and said,
“You have changed.”
I was startled and asked, “In what way?”
She said,
“It looks to me like you’re happy.”
My prayer
to find a spiritual home
was answered,
and I experienced the great miracle
of finally finding
what I had been looking for my entire life.
We’re glad Katri found
the spiritual home she prayed for.
A painful loss was a turning point for her.
Suffering can cause any of us to wonder:
‘Why me?
‘Why now?
Does God care?’
Brother David Splane
of the Governing Body examines
how we can quell disquieting thoughts
in the following morning worship.
Have you ever gotten into trouble
trying to do the right thing?
If you have, think about Jacob.
Now, Jacob did the right thing.
Rather than marry out of the truth
like his brother Esau,
he traveled to the home
of a believing relative, Laban,
and asked for the hand
of his daughter Rachel.
It didn’t work out so well.
Jacob was tricked by Laban
into marrying both Rachel
and her older sister, Leah.
And the women didn’t get along very well.
In fact,
they acted more like rivals than like family.
Now, Jehovah saw what Laban was up to,
but he didn’t intervene.
And Jacob didn’t blame Jehovah, as if to say:
‘Well, why is this happening to me?
‘I followed instructions.
I did the right thing,
and look where I am today.’
No, that wasn’t Jacob.
Now, later on,
Jehovah fixed the matter
by giving the law to Israel:
“You must not take a woman
in addition to her sister
as a rival wife.”
Well, that law seems to have
Leah and Rachel
written all over it, doesn’t it?
Jehovah fixed the matter,
but in the meantime,
he did sustain Jacob.
He did help Jacob through his trial.
Now, a bright spot in all of this was Joseph,
and he’s the subject of our comment today.
Jehovah began dealing with Joseph
when he was just a teenager,
and He gave him two dreams.
Now, the first dream was about food,
sheaves of wheat.
His brothers’ sheaves bowed down
to his sheaf.
Now, that was appropriate, wasn’t it?
Because later on,
not only Joseph’s brothers
but almost everyone in the known world
was going to look to Joseph for food.
Now, the second dream included his father
and, strangely, his mother,
who had died giving birth to Benjamin.
Now, in that dream, the sun, moon,
and 11 stars (that would include Benjamin)
bowed down to Joseph.
Now, there’s no record
that Joseph ever attempted
to interpret that dream.
But Jacob and his sons got the point,
and they were offended.
And Jacob kind of accused Joseph
of being presumptuous.
He said: “Am I . . .
your mother and your brothers
really going to come
and bow down to the earth to you?”
Now, we won’t comment on the fact
that Jacob automatically assumed
that he was the sun in that dream.
But by means of the dreams,
what was Jehovah telling Joseph?
He was telling Joseph that he had
something special in mind for him.
He had a purpose for Joseph.
So, what do you suppose
the Devil wanted to do?
Well, the Devil wanted
to frustrate that purpose.
He wanted to keep that purpose
from being fulfilled.
So Satan must have been overjoyed
when he heard Joseph’s brothers
plotting to put him to death.
Would they have followed through with it?
Think about Simeon and Levi.
They didn’t hesitate
to mow down all the men of Shechem
when one man raped their sister.
Now, the oldest of the brothers,
24-year-old Reuben,
talks the others into sparing Joseph’s life.
Now, did Jehovah move him to do that?
It could be.
It was certainly in line with His purpose.
So instead of killing Joseph,
his brothers sell him
to a band of Ishmaelites.
Now, I want you to tuck that
in the back of your mind, Ishmaelites,
because we’re going
to come back to that a little later.
So the Ishmaelites
bring Joseph down to Egypt,
and he becomes a slave to Potiphar,
the chief of Pharaoh’s bodyguard.
Now, Joseph is a slave.
What happens three years later?
His grandfather Isaac dies.
And Joseph the slave
can’t be there to say goodbye.
It kind of reminds us of many of us
during this pandemic, doesn’t it?
But as with us, Jehovah was with Joseph.
He was a great success
in Potiphar’s household
until Potiphar’s wife accused him of rape
and Potiphar threw Joseph into prison.
But we can say that Jehovah was with Joseph
because he went to prison.
Why can we say that?
Prison was probably
the mildest form of punishment
that Joseph could have suffered.
He was a Hebrew slave.
And under Egyptian law,
Potiphar could have killed him on the spot
because of the accusations,
or he could have had Joseph arrested
and the court could have ordered
a thousand lashes.
Joseph would probably have died
under the lash.
Well, that gives us perspective
when we read in the Mosaic Law
that an Israelite could receive
up to 40 strokes of the rod
—not a thousand lashes.
This was love on Jehovah’s part.
He wanted to prevent the Israelites
from being cruel like the Egyptians.
Now, let’s use our imagination a little bit.
Later on,
Joseph interprets a dream for Pharaoh,
and Pharaoh makes him his chief adviser.
Now, imagine.
Joseph kneels
and receives the signet ring from Pharaoh.
He rises and takes a step back.
Out of the corner of his eye,
he sees someone standing near the throne,
someone who’s trying
to make himself very small:
Potiphar, the chief of the bodyguard.
I don’t know about you,
but that possibility makes me smile
when I think about it.
Can you imagine what happened
when Potiphar went home to lunch that day
and told his wife
who his new boss was now?
I wonder how much sleep she lost over that.
Potiphar’s wife did a terrible thing,
but so did Joseph’s brothers.
In fact,
if the Law had been in force,
Joseph’s brothers
would have been put to death for kidnapping.
Later,
Jehovah made kidnapping a capital offense.
He may have had Joseph’s brothers in mind
when he did that.
Now, some think that Simeon
masterminded the kidnapping plot,
and that might explain
why Joseph chose him to stay behind
when he sent the rest of his brothers home.
Now, let’s get back to Jehovah’s purpose.
Jehovah has a purpose for Joseph.
Joseph brings the family down to Egypt.
Now, that’s part of the prophecy,
but there’s more.
God told Abraham
that his descendants
would be afflicted by foreigners
for 400 years.
Well, Israel left Egypt in 1513 B.C.E.
So when did the 400 years start?
1913 B.C.E.
What happened that year?
Isaac’s half brother
—what was his name again?
Ishmael.
Ishmael persecuted Isaac.
But was Ishmael a foreigner?
His mother was an Egyptian slave,
and his descendants
—the Ishmaelites—
had Egyptian blood.
It’s interesting that the Ishmaelites
followed in the family tradition
by persecuting Isaac’s grandson Joseph.
Jehovah didn’t incite Joseph’s brothers
to kidnap him and send him down to Egypt,
but He did use the event
to carry out his purpose.
He didn’t always prevent bad things
from happening to Jacob
(like marrying sisters who didn’t get along)
or to Joseph
(like being falsely accused).
He didn’t put a hedge around them.
But he did help both of them
to face their trials every step of the way.
He did that for them.
He’ll do it for you too.
So if you ever get in trouble
trying to do the right thing,
think of Jacob; think of Jehovah.
Jehovah will help you.
He will never abandon you.
To see Jehovah’s support,
we may have to set aside time to meditate.
In this month’s music video,
we see just how powerful
it is to take a break,
take a breath, and take in God’s creation.
Sitting around the fire
beneath a million stars,
Letting go of the cares of the day,
we share the reflections of our heart.
It’s so nice to make the time
to think of all the good.
Daily gifts from above
—how God shows us his love—
fill us with gratitude.
We’re just taking a moment
to change our focus,
Slowing down
to look up and reflect
On the simple things,
the joy it brings to slow down,
To take a deep breath,
Pause, and reset.
As the moon shines through the forest
in the stillness of the night,
Our spirits are lifted by ev’ry good gift
that comes from our Father up high.
As we see the bigger picture
beyond the trials we face,
You and I can endure
as our hearts are assured
of Jehovah’s warm embrace.
We’re just taking a moment
to change our focus,
Slowing down
to look up and reflect
On the simple things,
the joy it brings to slow down,
To take a deep breath,
Pause, and reset.
Pause and reset;
Pause and reset.
We’re just taking a moment
to change our focus,
Slowing down
to look up and reflect
On the simple things,
the joy it brings to slow down,
To take a deep breath,
Pause, and reset.
Savor the moment;
change our focus.
So take a deep breath.
Savor the moment;
change our focus.
Slow down, take a deep breath,
Pause, and reset.
Our thinking ability will enrich our life now
in so many ways.
We’ll make wise decisions
that draw us closer to Jehovah,
we’ll address any doubts to our faith,
we’ll “safeguard [the] practical wisdom”
we’ve found in the Bible,
and we’ll secure
a perfect life in the future.
In our postcard for the month,
we’ll visit Burundi.
It’s located
in the often-called “heart of Africa,”
bordered on the southwest by Lake Tanganyika.
Burundi is full of green rolling hills,
cascading waterfalls,
and rich agricultural land.
Lake Tanganyika
is the longest freshwater lake in the world
and the second deepest.
It’s absolutely bursting with life!
Over 2,000 species are found here,
with 500 of them found nowhere else
in the world.
The local fishermen
tap into this natural bounty,
hauling in tons of fish every year.
Burundi is also a preaching paradise
for “fishers of men.”
There are now over 17,000 publishers
in the country.
And they had
an incredible Memorial attendance in 2023
of over 65,000 people.
But it was not always like this.
From 1977 to 1993,
the preaching work was banned.
Our brothers were persecuted
and even imprisoned for their faith.
Now when the opportunity comes to preach,
they seize it.
For example, Sarah Niyungeko walked
45 minutes to school each day.
That way she could save money
for preaching in seldom-worked territory.
The Burundi Bethel family
and the 83 publishers
of the Bujumbura Gihosha Centre Congregation
send warm greetings
to all their brothers and sisters.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.